
# Forward

Special thanks to [Michael Pearson](http://www.jmichaelpearson.net/), Executive
Vice President of the MAA, for being willing to contribute the following Forward
to the text, and letting us publish it online as well.  He is uniquely
positioned to make the case for the importance of this text at this time.

---

As we often hear, we live in an era where data can be collected, stored, and
processed at an unprecedented (and rapidly accelerating) scale. Whether or not
that happens in a way that can properly be called science, however, is a
critical issue for our society.

The recently-concluded [Roundtable on Data Science Postsecondary
Education](https://www.nationalacademies.org/our-work/roundtable-on-data-science-postsecondary-education),
held under the auspices of the [Board on Mathematical Sciences and
Analytics](https://www.nationalacademies.org/bmsa/board-on-mathematical-sciences-and-analytics)
at the [National Academies](https://www.nationalacademies.org/home), brought
together representatives from academia, professional societies, industry, and
funding agencies to share perspectives on what tools our students need to
participate in this space. Throughout these discussions, it was clear that,
while there is no single model for what constitutes data science, there are a
wide variety of tools from mathematics, statistics, and computer science which
are essential ingredients for anyone interested in exploring this
rapidly-evolving discipline.

For those of us in mathematics, it is essential that we become better-informed
about the role of our discipline in this emerging field. Doing so will help
prepare our students for careers which will more and more depend on some level
of competency in understanding how to use data to inform decisions, regardless
of the specific discipline or industry in which they find themselves. It can
also bring heightened awareness of the importance of rigorous mathematical
perspectives to the enterprise.

I believe it is an ethical, and in fact an existential, imperative for the
mathematical sciences community to develop a deeper understanding of the role of
our disciplines in data science, and to change our educational programs to
enable our students to engage with data effectively, and with integrity.

Nathan Carter and his colleagues have made an important contribution by
providing an overview of many of the key tools from the mathematical,
statistical, and computational sciences needed to succeed as a data scientist,
written specifically for those of us in the mathematical sciences -- faculty
interested in learning more about data science themselves, graduate students,
and others with a reasonable level of mathematical maturity. From my
perspective, for those of us concerned with undergraduate mathematics education,
it cannot have come too soon.
